for this course we will be using TypeScript instead of
playing JavaScript now, TypeScript is becoming the tool of
choice for any jealousy developer who is interested in using
modern tooling nowadays, most projects that I've worked on
have been using TypeScript or looking to move to TypeScript
So really if you are going to be right in
react native code for your job or for work you're
more than likely going to be using TypeScript in the
end so if you never use touch group before there's
no time like the present to get stuck in just
a note because of the way that react native project
are set up. If you're not interested in learning
TypeScript you can simply opt out and just not use
it on your project. If you use TypeScript on
the web before you can build the web app using
the typescript compiler meaning that you can, the app
won't build if the TypeScript is wrong but on react
native because we use the metro bundler and TypeScript is
just adjacent. The metro bundler step will still work
even if you're TypeScript is wrong so if you're not
interested in touch skipped, you can opt out of
this. So what is TypeScript TypeScript essentially typed,
JavaScript and it is a super set of JavaScript which
means that all valid javascript code is also valid typescript
code. So it's like JavaScript but you can actually
have some extra stuff um the TypeScript files in react
native have T s and T s x file extensions
so instead of Js and Js x and TypeScript has
two main points of views So firstly it does static
code analysis. So without you doing anything, so
there's no types here, it analyzes your existing code
and points out any incorrect usages when possible. So
for example, if you consider this code, so
we have a constant my number and I decided to
five and if I try to call split on it
, Um you actually get a typescript error on your
editor and you will see it probably display, it
does not exist on type five and this is because
TypeScript knows that this is a number because of literally
just designed to a constant but split is an operation
you can you do on a string. So it's
going to tell me that you can't do that.
Now study study code analysis isn't going to be enough
for for more complicated use cases. So for that
reason you can also expand your javascript code with custom
types. So for example, consider this add function
so it's just going to take A and B and
add them together since you asked does not type safe
. There is really nothing preventing or even warning you
if instead of passing in numbers, you passing strings
or objects or function or literally anything and this could
cause unintended side effects. So ideally you want other
people to know that you need to pass in two
numbers without having to read the comments. So to
do that you can explicitly type these arguments and the
return type. So here and the way we do
that is we are a colon and the type.
So here we say that is a number and B
is the number and it also returns number. So
now if I try to call this add function with
Hello and world, you will get a warning in
your code editor and here's a tip for ci usage
. So I usually add a TypeScript check, step
one ci. So along with checking tests and lynching
and basically the way you do it is if you
do use young, you can just do young TSC
but if you use npm the best thing to do
is add a script for T s check that calls
TSC and then this will basically check for the TypeScript
types in your code base.